# BIDsLondon
Business Improvement Districts are a transnational phenomenon providing businesses 65 with the opportunity to collaborate on local, often borough-wide, issues that can have the potential to be ameliorated through a collaborative effort. Since 2003, the UK has seen a great expansion in BIDs, covering most town centres and high streets, and is considered the improved response to Town Centre Management (TCM) schemes Institute of Place Management (2019). However, now that two decades have past, there is scrutiny over the effectiveness of BIDs in local areas and whether there is a quantifiable way to understand this. Thus far, most research has focused on the role of BIDs in the United States, and
the research that does focus on the UK, relies more heavily on qualitative policy ideas, rather than a quantifiable approach of how beneficial they are. This research study aims to understand in a quantified way, "Do BIDs Make Better Places?", specifically for the
UK. It seeks to use a combination of geographic and business data points, to gain further quantifiable insights into the nature of BIDs in London. To approach this research study, data was collected geographically from the years 2018-2022, and data on the status of businesses were assessed from 2013-2023. This was also compared with activity data which tracked the difference in activity levels for the COVID-19 pandemic period. Together,
80 business points were assessed within and outside the BID boundary to gauge whether there is a difference between areas affected by BIDs and those that are outside. From this it became clear that BIDs, and policy-measures in general, lack data-tracking in which the process of policy implementation to execution are understood through data points. BIDs certainly contribute to increasing the attractiveness of an area, but this does not
 necessarily mean they benefit all of the businesses that are situated within the BID area. This research adds to existing research by taking a spatial-data approach to a topic and criticizes the mismatch between the aim and the execution.
